___ Celebrating America Sale! Early Access! | 15% off orders $950+ | SALE ENDS TODAY Celebrating America Sale! Early Access! | 15% off orders $950+ | SALE ENDS TODAY | Learn More Menu Closed Saatva Logo Mattresses Mattresses Shop all mattresses Take our mattress quiz Compare mattresses Hybrid Innerspring Memory Foam Natural Latex Adjustable Firmness Saatva Kids Saatva Pets Hybrid Innerspring Mattresses right chevron Durable coils for a responsive feel Saatva Classic Cushioned pillow top • 3 firmness options Memory Foam Hybrid Premium memory foam + coils • Sleeps cooler Saatva Latex Hybrid Organic latex & Recycled coils • Best cooling Saatva HD Multiple comfort layers • For bigger bodies Saatva RX Multiple comfort layers • For chronic back & joint pain Saatva Youth Water-resistant • For growing kids ages 3-12 Memory Foam Mattresses right chevron Premium foams for excellent pressure relief Loom & Leaf Ultra-premium memory foam • Body-hugging feel Memory Foam Hybrid Premium memory foam + coils • Sleeps cooler Saatva RX Multiple comfort layers • For chronic back & joint pain Natural Latex Mattresses right chevron Weightless feel & superb durability Saatva Latex Hybrid Organic latex & Recycled coils • Best cooling Zenhaven Organic latex (no coils) • Dual-sided Saatva HD Multiple comfort layers • For bigger bodies Adjustable Firmness Mattress right chevron 50 firmness settings for customizable comfort Solaire Multiple comfort layers • Great for couples Saatva Kids Mattresses right chevron Comfort & support for growing bodies Saatva Youth Water-resistant • For growing kids ages 3-12 Crib Mattress Water-resistant & nontoxic • For babies & toddlers Bunk & Trundle Mattress Water-resistant • For all ages Saatva Pets right chevron Luxurious comfort for our furry friends Saatva Dog Bed Micro-coils • Responsive support for pets Furniture & Rugs Furniture & Rugs Shop all Furniture Bed Frames Foundation & Adjustable Bases Benches & Ottomans Bedroom Chairs Bedroom Rugs Bed Frames right chevron Designer bed frames that transform your space Santorini Platform bed frame • No foundation required Minori Standard bed frame • Foundation required Halle Storage Bed Bed frame w/ storage • No foundation required Copenhagen Platform bed frame • No foundation required Amalfi Standard bed frame • Foundation required Valencia Platform bed frame • No foundation required Siena Leather Platform bed frame • No foundation required View more Foundation & Adjustable Bases right chevron Upgrade your box spring for enhanced support Mattress Foundation Adds optimal support & durability Saatva Adjustable Base Plus Weightless support plus full body massage & more Saatva Adjustable Base Elevates head & feet for customized comfort Benches & Ottomans right chevron Designed to pair perfectly with our bed frames Rhone Storage Bench Refined storage & seating Brienne Channel Ottoman Modern & streamlined with a tailored design Arno Cushioned Bench Sleek with modern lines Lena Cushioned Bench Modern yet classic feel Constance Tufted Ottoman Elegant with a decadent plushness Bedroom Chairs right chevron Versatile seating to add luxury to any space Luna Swivel Chair Stylish with an inviting silhouette Como Swivel Chair Clean, geometric lines with a plush seat Anais Chair Timeless, elegant silhouette Logan Chair Mid-century style with a modern feel Bedroom Rugs right chevron Handcrafted to complement our bedroom furniture Adamas Rug Versatile with a timelessly stylish pattern Kanan Rug Modern texture with an understated vibe Cirrus Rug Contemporary & versatile with timeless appeal Terna Rug Dimensional, global-inspired style Navi Rug Cozy, on-trend shearling look Myra Rug Sophisticated yet subtle striped design Bedding & Bath Bedding & Bath Shop all bedding Mattress Pad & Toppers Pillows Sheets Duvets & Comforters Blankets & Quilts Towels Eye Masks Bedding Bundles Mattress Pad & Toppers right chevron Keep your mattress feeling (and looking) its best Mattress Pad Added comfort & protection • Organic cotton Waterproof Mattress Protector Protects from spills & moisture • Cotton knit Graphite Memory Foam Topper Cooling • Body-hugging feel High-Density Foam Topper Body-contouring • Medium feel Natural Latex Topper Durable • Buoyant feel Micro-Coil Topper Body-contouring • Responsive feel Down Alternative Featherbed Topper Breathable • Ultra-plush feel Pillows right chevron Plush support for every sleep style Saatva Latex Pillow Responsive & breathable • For all sleepers Down Alternative Pillow Plush, airy feel • For combination sleepers Graphite Memory Foam Pillow Contouring support • For side sleepers Cloud Memory Foam Pillow Lofty & contouring • For all sleepers Sheets right chevron 100% natural fabrics for breathable comfort Organic Sateen Sheet Set Silky-soft • 100% organic cotton Percale Sheet Set Crisp & cool • 100% long staple cotton Linen Sheet Set Relaxed & airy • 100% Belgian linen Embroidered Sateen Sheet Set Silky-soft • 100% organic cotton Banded Percale Sheet Set Crisp & cool • 100% long staple cotton Luxury Flannel Sheet Set Cozy & warm • 100% long staple cotton Signature Sateen Sheet Set Silky-soft • 100% long staple cotton Essential Sheet Set Soft & breathable • 55% cotton, 45% viscose Duvets & Comforters right chevron Made with natural fabrics for cloud-like comfort Percale Duvet Cover Set Crisp & cool • 100% organic cotton Sateen Duvet Cover Set Silky-soft • 100% organic cotton Linen Duvet Cover Set Relaxed & airy • 100% Belgian linen Waffle Knit Duvet Cover Set Plush & lightweight • 100% long staple cotton Banded Percale Duvet Cover Set Crisp & cool • 100% long staple cotton All-Year Down Alternative Comforter Plush comfort • Percale cotton cover Lightweight Down Alternative Comforter Cool comfort • Percale cotton cover View more Blankets & Quilts right chevron Sustainably made & breathably cozy Weighted Blanket Plush & relaxing • 100% cotton velvet Diamond Knit Blanket Light & airy • 100% cotton Cotton Channel Quilt Silky-soft • 100% organic cotton Velvet Diamond Quilt Plush & cozy • 100% organic cotton Aero Quilt Soft & airy  • Cotton & viscose gauze weave Herringbone Knit Blanket Medium weight • 100% cotton Waffle Knit Blanket Plush & lightweight • 100% long staple cotton Sweater Knit Blanket Soft & cozy • 100% long staple cotton Towels right chevron Spa-worthy towels to elevate your bathroom Waffle Towel Collection Light & breathable • 100% long staple cotton Plush Towel Collection Thick & luxurious • 100% long staple cotton Eye Masks right chevron Essentials for next-level sleep luxury Weighted Silk Eye Mask Relief for tired eyes • 100% mulberry silk Silk Eye Mask For deep, restful sleep • 100% mulberry silk Bedding Bundles Bundle our best-selling bedding & save Sateen Sheet Set & Latex Pillows Sateen Sheet Set & Memory Foam Pillows Sateen Sheet Set, Latex Pillows & Mattress Pad Gifts Sale Search Contact Us Arrow Down Ask a sleep guide Phone (877) 672-2882 Email Email us Order Tracker Arrow Down Order Status Order Status See all Viewing Rooms Cart 0 Search for products We couldn't find any matches for “” Check your spelling, try a more general search term, or start with one our suggestions below Explore our product pages Shop all mattresses Shop all bedroom furniture Shop all bedding You might also find these helpful Mattress Quiz Home trial & return policies Free shipping & white glove delivery Still can't find what you're looking for? Our friendly sleep guides are here to help 24/7 Display Tool Tip Email us at info@saatvamattress.com Display Tool Tip Call us at 1-877-672-2882 Home arrow Mattresses Loom & Leaf Click to zoom zoom slide page 1 of 5 home-trial 365-night home trial Learn More Chevron Right white-glove Free in-room delivery & setup Learn More Chevron Right warranty Lifetime warranty Learn More Chevron Right mattress-removal Free mattress & foundation removal available Learn More Chevron Right Loom & Leaf Mattress Our ultra-premium 5-lb memory foam mattress for a body-hugging feel 4.9 star rating 561 Reviews $2,395 $2,036 Save $359 Select Size Specs Twin Twin XL Full Queen King Split King Cal King Split Cal King Select Comfort Level About comfort levels Relaxed Firm Firm Learn more Add Foundation or Adjustable Base More Foundation Adjustable Bases Add Foundation, $345 Durable hardwood construction provides better support than a box spring. Choose height Learn more 4.75" 8.75" Add Metal Frame, $129 Steel brace holds foundation and supports mattress. Sits 7.5″ off ground. Mattress cannot sit directly on frame. Loom & Leaf is compatible with most foundations, box springs, platform beds, and adjustable bases. Saatva Adjustable Base $1,245 Our premium remote-controlled base elevates head and feet for customized comfort. No foundation (or boxspring) required. Featuring: Zero-clearance design, can be used without legs on platform bases. Slim profile virtually disappears underneath the mattress Quiet motor Upgrade for $354 more Saatva Adjustable Base Plus $1,599 Our deluxe adjustable base elevates head and feet, plus more customized comfort options. No foundation (or boxspring) required. Additional Features: Full-body massage Preset positions Under-bed lighting Wall-hugging design (in Standard option) Adjustable base is only compatible with 11.5" Loom & Leaf. We have adjusted your selection. Organic Mattress Pad Queen +$265 Our luxurious diamond-patterned mattress pad in 100% organic cotton is the ultimate in breathable protection and comfort. Save $40 Add 2 Memory Foam Pillows Queen (Pair) + Current price: $290 Original Price: $330 Enjoy the cool comfort and contouring support of our graphite-infused pillow. Subtotal $2,395 $2,036 As low as $85 /month at 0% APR with Affirm Learn More Add 1 Item to Cart Your Cart Item Added Check Mark 0 items were added to your cart Close Modal View Cart Proceed to Checkout Celebrating America Sale 15% off orders $950+ | Ends Today Celebrating America Sale 15% off orders $950+ | Ends Today | Learn More Celebrating America Sale 15% off orders $950+ and as low as 0% APR with Affirm* Home Trial 365-Night Home Trial Delivery Free Delivery & Setup Warranty Lifetime Warranty Shop Now Learn about Affirm Close home-trial 365-night home trial Learn More Chevron Right white-glove Free in-room delivery & setup Learn More Chevron Right warranty Lifetime warranty Learn More Chevron Right mattress-removal Free mattress & foundation removal available Learn More Chevron Right Overview Layers Comfort Specs Reviews Service Choose mattress size Features & Benefits Expand/Collapse Excellent pressure-point relief with CertiPUR-US® certified memory foams that hug your body's curves Sleep cooler than traditional memory foam mattresses with its gel-infused memory foam and breathable cover made with organic cotton Excellent motion isolation for couples Two firmness options available to support all sleepers Lumbar Zone® Quilting & gel-infused memory foam lumbar crown provide enhanced lower back support Treated with our exclusive Guardin® botanical antimicrobial treatment to inhibit the growth of bacteria, mold, and mildew. Certifications Expand/Collapse CertiPUR-US® certified memory foam Congress of Chiropractic State Association Seal of Approval Compatibility Expand/Collapse checkmark icon Foundations or box springs Place on a foundation on its own or with an optional metal frame to raise the foundation off the floor checkmark icon Standard bed frame + foundation or box spring Place on a standard bed frame with a required foundation or box spring checkmark icon Platform bed frame Place on a platform bed frame with either a solid surface or slatted platform with slats that are at least 3” wide and spaced less than 4” apart checkmark icon Adjustable base* Place on an adjustable base to elevate head and feet for the most customized comfort * Loom & Leaf Split King & Split Cal King pair exclusively with our Split King & Split Cal King adjustable bases Firmness Expand/Collapse Available in two comfort levels: Relaxed-Firm Our most popular comfort level Ideal for side sleepers, but also great for back and combination sleepers Balance of body-hugging comfort and adequate support Firm Firmer foams offer less of a body-hugging feel & more responsiveness Ideal for stomach sleepers or those who need or prefer a firm mattress Balance of body-contouring comfort and firm support Features & Benefits Excellent pressure-point relief with CertiPUR-US® certified memory foams that hug your body's curves Sleep cooler than traditional memory foam mattresses with its gel-infused memory foam and breathable cover made with organic cotton Excellent motion isolation for couples Two firmness options available to support all sleepers Lumbar Zone® Quilting & gel-infused memory foam lumbar crown provide enhanced lower back support Treated with our exclusive Guardin® botanical antimicrobial treatment to inhibit the growth of bacteria, mold, and mildew. Certifications CertiPUR-US® certified memory foam Congress of Chiropractic State Association Seal of Approval Compatibility checkmark icon Foundations or box springs Place on a foundation on its own or with an optional metal frame to raise the foundation off the floor checkmark icon Standard bed frame + foundation or box spring Place on a standard bed frame with a required foundation or box spring checkmark icon Platform bed frame Place on a platform bed frame with either a solid surface or slatted platform with slats that are at least 3” wide and spaced less than 4” apart checkmark icon Adjustable base* Place on an adjustable base to elevate head and feet for the most customized comfort * Loom & Leaf Split King & Split Cal King pair exclusively with our Split King & Split Cal King adjustable bases Firmness Available in two comfort levels: Relaxed-Firm Our most popular comfort level Ideal for side sleepers, but also great for back and combination sleepers Balance of body-hugging comfort and adequate support Firm Firmer foams offer less of a body-hugging feel & more responsiveness Ideal for stomach sleepers or those who need or prefer a firm mattress Balance of body-contouring comfort and firm support Your best sleep starts with the best memory foam mattress Rest deeply with our ultra-premium memory foam mattress that strikes the perfect balance of comfort, support, and luxury. Pressure Relief Pressure relief Gel-infused memory foams mold and contour to your curves, providing excellent pressure relief while keeping you cooler Ultra-premium 5-lb memory foam core provides a deep, body-hugging feel balanced with optimal support Back support Lumbar Zone® Quilting & gel-infused memory foam lumbar crown give you enhanced support where you need it most Enjoy healthy spinal alignment in any sleep position Breathable Our naturally breathable cover made with organic cotton helps you sleep cooler Gel-infused memory foam with micro perforations increases breathability Healthier sleep Eco-friendly CertiPUR-US® certified foams produce lower volatile organic compounds (VOCs) for healthier indoor air quality. Certified free of potentially harmful chemicals like ozone depleters, formaldehyde, and heavy metals Perfect balance of body-hugging feel and optimal support Hugs every curve while keeping your spine in healthy neutral alignment in any sleep position Multiple memory foam layers give a body-hugging feel while offering great edge support with no sagging Chevron Left Chevron Right slide page 1 of 3 Body-hugging comfort & pressure relief built into every layer 1 Cushioned & breathable sleep surface Cover made with naturally breathable and hypoallergenic organic cotton to promote cooler, healthier sleep Lumbar Zone® Quilting , with two layers of plush comfort foams and nontoxic natural thistle flame barrier, gives you more support in the center third of the mattress where you need it most Treated with our exclusive Guardin™ botanical antimicrobial treatment to inhibit the growth of bacteria, mold, and mildew No fiberglass or toxic chemical flame retardants, instead we use a natural, plant-based thistle pulp flame barrier 2 Pressure-relieving back support Proprietary gel-infused memory foam lumbar crown helps keep you cooler Provides proper spinal alignment in any sleep position Improves circulation by relieving pressure points Enhanced lower back support and durability in the middle of the mattress, where you need it most. 3 Cooling & breathable foam layer 2" CertiPUR-US® certified gel-infused memory foam with micro perforations for enhanced breathability Molds and contours to your body's curves for excellent pressure relief 4 Body-hugging high-density memory foam core 2.5" CertiPUR-US® certified ultra premium 5-lb memory foam Provides the perfect balance of comfort and support Gives the mattress its deep body-hugging feel 5 Transitional foam layer 2" CertiPUR-US® certified transitional loft pad determines the firmness level of the mattress (2 firmness options) Transitions pressure between the comfort layers above and the denser support foam layer below 6 Durable base support 5.5" CertiPUR-US® certified foam base supports the upper layers Ensures maximum durability and stability for years of restorative sleep 1 2 3 4 5 6 Find your perfect comfort level Relaxed Firm 5-7 How it feels: Hugs the body without allowing the hips to sink too far A true medium firmness, cushioned but not too soft Ideal for: Side sleepers, but also great for back and combination sleepers Couples who can’t agree on firmness Firm 8 How it feels: Has more “push back” support and responsiveness than the Relaxed Firm A true firm, but never hard on the back and joints Ideal for: Stomach sleepers or those who need/prefer a firm mattress Sleepers who love memory foam but move around a lot Discover other great options 4.8 star rating 3178 Reviews Saatva Classic Luxury Hybrid Innerspring $931 - $2,372 $1,095 - $2,790 4.8 star rating 204 Reviews Saatva Latex Hybrid Organic Latex Hybrid Innerspring $1,101 - $2,542 $1,295 - $2,990 4.8 star rating 154 Reviews Memory Foam Hybrid Cooling Premium Memory Foam & Innerspring $846 - $2,236 $995 - $2,630 slide page 1 of 3 4.8 star rating 3178 Reviews Saatva Classic Luxury Hybrid Innerspring $931 - $2,372 $1,095 - $2,790 4.8 star rating 204 Reviews Saatva Latex Hybrid Organic Latex Hybrid Innerspring $1,101 - $2,542 $1,295 - $2,990 4.8 star rating 154 Reviews Memory Foam Hybrid Cooling Premium Memory Foam & Innerspring $846 - $2,236 $995 - $2,630 slide page 1 of 1 A memory foam mattress that's better for our planet When we say Loom & Leaf is an ultra-premium memory foam mattress, we don’t just stop at luxurious craftsmanship and comfort. We make sure it’s as good for our environment as it is for your sleep. Eco-friendly foams Expand/Collapse We substitute 30% of the polyurethane in our foams with renewable, naturally-derived soybean & corn oils The manufacturing of our foams produce less greenhouse gasses than traditional polyurethane foam Certified free of harmful chemicals Expand/Collapse CertiPUR-US® certified free of ozone depleters, PBDEs, TDCPP, and TCEP flame retardants, mercury, lead, and other heavy metals, formaldehyde, and phthalates Low volatile organic compounds (VOCs) means no off-gassing fumes when your mattress arrives, so you can breathe easy Lower carbon footprint Expand/Collapse Each mattress is made fresh to order in one of our 19 U.S. factory partners Your mattress travels less than a 100 miles on average from our factory to your home Specifications FAQs Frequently asked questions Dimensions Expand/Collapse The Loom & Leaf is 12" high and comes in the following standard mattress sizes: Twin Twin XL Full Queen King/Split Cal King/Split 38" x 75" 38" x 80" 54" x 75" 60" x 80" 76" x 80" 72" x 84" Twin 38" x 75" Twin XL 38" x 80" Full 54" x 75" Queen 60" x 80" King/Split 76" x 80" Cal King/Split 72" x 84" Made in the U.S.A. Expand/Collapse Every Saatva mattress is made to order and handcrafted in America with care and pride, using only the highest quality, consciously sourced materials. We could have settled on cheaper materials and produced our products elsewhere for higher profits, but we've never wavered in our commitment to quality. We believe it's the right thing to do for our customers, our American workers, and our economy. Eco-friendly materials Expand/Collapse Every Loom & Leaf ultra-premium memory foam mattress features: Cover made with organic cotton Guardin™ nontoxic, botanical antimicrobial treatment Eco-friendly foams that meet the CertiPUR-US® standards for health and environmental safety Flame retardant barrier made from natural thistle pulp (rather than chemical sprays) Delivery & setup Expand/Collapse Sit back and relax while we do all the work. Our free white glove delivery includes in-room delivery and set up. We'll even take away your old mattress at no additional cost to you. Just select free mattress removal at checkout. 365-night home trial Expand/Collapse At Saatva, we never pressure you to make up your mind quickly. All of our mattresses come with a 365-night home trial, so you have plenty of time to decide whether it’s right for you. If at any point during your home trial you’re not satisfied, just give us a call and we’ll come pick up the mattress and refund your money, less a $99 processing fee to cover our cost of gas and labor for the pickup. That’s it. Weight limit Expand/Collapse Loom & Leaf is best suited for sleepers who weigh 300 pounds and under to ensure the longest-lasting comfort and support. If you and/or your sleep partner weigh up to 300 pounds and prefer a more supportive mattress, we'd suggest either our Saatva Classic , Saatva Latex Hybrid , Zenhaven , or Solaire . Those weighing more than 300 pounds would sleep better on a heavy duty hybrid like our Saatva HD or an all-latex mattress like our dual-sided Zenhaven latex mattress . Mattress weights by size Expand/Collapse Loom & Leaf: Twin: 61 lbs Twin XL: 70 lbs Full: 79 lbs Queen: 93 lbs King and Cal king: 116 lbs + Why aren’t your memory foam mattresses shipped in a box like other "bed in a box" mattress brands? Expand/Collapse Bed in a box (BIAB) mattresses are compressed, shrink-wrapped, folded, then rolled into a cardboard box for shipping. While this allows BIAB companies to save on freight costs, it takes a severe toll on the integrity of the foam mattress by breaking down the cell structure of the foams. It can also result in uneven firmness and sinking support in some areas, reducing the overall lifespan of the mattress. We believe your bed deserves better than being stuffed in a box. That’s why all Saatva mattresses, including our Loom & Leaf Memory Foam Mattress, come with FREE white glove delivery and in-home set up. We even take away your old mattress for free! What is memory foam made of? Expand/Collapse Memory foam, also known as viscoelastic foam, is a type of high-density polyurethane foam. Its distinguishing feature is that it softens in response to heat and pressure. That’s what gives memory foam mattresses their body-hugging, body-contouring feel. How long do memory foam mattresses last? Expand/Collapse The durability of a foam mattress can vary greatly depending on the quality and density of the foams. A premium, high-quality memory foam mattress should last you anywhere from 10 to 15 years. Are memory foam mattresses hot? Expand/Collapse Traditional foam mattresses have a tendency to trap body heat, but new technologies like gel-infused memory foams have come a long way in helping you sleep cooler. Saatva memory foam mattresses also feature covers made naturally breathable organic cotton. If you tend to sleep hot, placing your memory foam mattress on a box spring or a platform with open slats will help increase overall airflow. It’s also a great idea to top off your mattress with breathable sheets made from natural fabrics to create a cooler, more comfortable sleep environment all around. Are memory foam mattresses good for my back? Expand/Collapse Yes. Memory foam mattresses conform to your body, helping to keep your spine in a healthy, neutral alignment in any sleep position. Consider your preferred sleeping position when shopping for a foam mattress. If you’re a side sleeper, a softer foam mattress may help reduce pressure on your shoulders and hips. If you sleep on your back or stomach, a medium-firm comfort level or firmer will prevent you from sinking too deeply into the mattress. Are memory foam mattresses safe? Expand/Collapse We only use nontoxic CertiPUR-US® certified foams in our mattresses. This means that the foams are made without CFCs and other ozone depleters. They also don’t use PBDEs, TDCPP, or TCEP ("Tris"), which are flame retardants that have been identified by the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) as substances that may cause cancer, genetic defects, or damage fertility. CertiPUR-US® compliant foams are free of phthalates, formaldehyde, and mercury, lead, or other heavy metals. They're also tested to verify low VOC (volatile organic compound) emissions, so your mattress won’t off-gas in your home. What is gel memory foam? Expand/Collapse This type of memory foam is infused with a cooling gel to help to draw heat away from the body so you sleep cooler. How do I clean a memory foam mattress? Expand/Collapse To make sure your mattress looks, feels, and smells its best, run your vacuum upholstery attachment through it at least a couple of times a year to get rid of dust, crumbs, dust mites, and other debris. To spot clean stains off your mattress, be sure to act quickly. Regardless of the type of stain, always check the care label on the mattress before cleanup. Do Saatva mattresses contain fiberglass or a fiberglass sock? Expand/Collapse No. We never use fiberglass or toxic chemical flame retardants/barriers in any of our mattresses. Instead, we use either a plant-based flame barrier made of thistle pulp, a Paladin flame barrier made with a blend of poly & rayon fibers, or organic New Zealand wool in our mattresses to meet federal safety standards. See Specifications under "Eco-friendly materials" for more details. What is off gassing? Expand/Collapse Off gassing is the term for what happens when volatile organic compounds (VOCs) leak out of upholstery materials and mattress foams and into the air you breathe. Some people refer to this as a "new mattress smell" that can range from unpleasant to downright nauseating. Learn more on our blog about off gassing and how Saatva mattresses cut down or completely eliminate this common issue. Do I need to flip over or rotate my mattress regularly? Expand/Collapse Our Zenhaven, Latex Hybrid, and Solaire mattresses do not need to be rotated from head to foot. This is due to the 5-zone alignment of the latex layer. Our other mattresses can be rotated. We recommend rotating the mattress after six months and then once a year after that. This will ensure that the surface of the mattress breaks in evenly. How do I clean my mattress? Expand/Collapse As part of regular maintenance, vacuum your mattress at least twice a year to get rid of dust, crumbs, and other icky things that might be living in there. You can also deodorize your mattress by generously sprinkling it with baking soda. Leave it on for a full day and then vacuum it up to refresh your mattress. Tip: Adding a mattress pad over your mattress gives it an added layer of protection from stains, moisture, and debris. Just make sure to wash your mattress pad regularly. For more mattress care tips, check out our blog . What is the best mattress for back pain? Expand/Collapse Picking the right mattress to help ease back pain starts with assessing your typical sleep position,  then choosing a mattress that best supports you in that position. No matter what kind of mattress you choose, the best mattresses for back pain should include firmer support zones for optimal spinal alignment.

        Every Saatva mattress is engineered with a dedicated lumbar zone support layer to promote healthy spinal alignment for every type of sleeper. Does a memory foam mattress need a box spring or foundation? Expand/Collapse You don’t need a box spring or foundation if you have a platform bed. Otherwise, if your existing foundation or bed support system is over 7 years old or is sagging or damaged in any way, we suggest getting a high-quality Saatva foundation to get the most out of your new mattress. Your mattress warranty remains in place even when you use your own existing foundation or box spring. Will my Saatva mattress work with my existing box spring or foundation? Expand/Collapse You can use your existing box spring or foundation if: You purchased your box spring or foundation within the last 7 years. Your existing box spring or foundation is in good condition and provides sturdy center support. You don't mind not having a matching foundation. NOTE: Saatva HD requires pairing with the HD Foundation for adequate support. Saatva mattresses also work with platform beds , without the need for a foundation. Please make sure your existing platform bed has: A solid, durable surface. If your platform has a slatted support system, make sure the slats are spaced less than 4" apart. If they're not, you can add a 1/2" thick piece of plywood to place on top. This extra layer of support is needed because Saatva mattresses are heavier due to their premium quality materials. A proper center support. This means you must have a center leg in the middle of your platform bed frame. NOTE: Must add a solid surface over platform slats such as plywood, masonite board, or bunkie board, when used with the dual-sided Zenhaven latex mattress. If you have any questions, you can reach one of our sleep guides 24/7 at 1-877-672-2882 . What bed frames are Saatva mattresses compatible with? Expand/Collapse Saatva mattresses are compatible with any bed frame, including our Saatva bed frames. Our dual-sided Zenhaven latex mattresses cannot be placed directly on a platform bed frame with slats. You must cover the slats with a solid material, such as plywood or a bunkie board . Non-platform (standard) bed frames require a foundation and can be paired with any mattress. Note that Saatva HD requires pairing with the HD foundation, which is specifically designed to give it optimal support. Are Saatva mattresses compatible with murphy beds? Expand/Collapse The best option for a murphy bed is a foam mattress, either memory foam or latex foam, as they retain their shape better than innerspring mattresses when stored vertically. Additionally, most murphy beds have a maximum mattress height you can use. Our Loom & Leaf memory foam mattress or Zenhaven all-latex foam mattress are both suitable options to use in a murphy bed, provided the bed frame is compatible with the height/thickness of the mattress. It's very important to check with the manufacturer of your murphy bed frame to see the maximum allowed mattress heigh/thickness before purchasing a mattress for it. What is CertiPUR-US®? Expand/Collapse Foams that are CertiPUR-US® certified are guaranteed to be low in volatile organic compounds (VOCs), so you don’t have to worry about off-gassing odors. CertiPUR-US certified foams are also guaranteed to be free of ozone depleters, PBDEs, TDCPP, and TCEP flame retardants, mercury, lead, and other heavy metals, formaldehyde, and phthalates. What's in your exclusive Guardin™ antimicrobial treatment? Expand/Collapse Our exclusive antimicrobial treatment by Guardin™ is made with a proprietary blend of all-natural essential oils and minerals. This blend includes thyme, geranium, lemongrass, and mint, but is completely odorless and colorless. Added to Saatva’s mattress ticking during the manufacturing process and engineered to last the life of the mattress, Guardin™ naturally inhibits the growth of bacteria, mold, mildew, and the discoloration that they can cause on the surface of a mattress. Guardin™ antimicrobial treatment is biodegradable and does not contain any fluorocarbons, toxic heavy metals, silver nanotechnology, triclosan, formaldehyde or phthalates. What are the benefits of the Extend protection plan? Expand/Collapse The Extend protection plan provides peace of mind and financial protection for your mattress investment from accidental damage. This plan covers accidental stains and damage NOT covered by the Saatva mattress warranty , such as rips, tears and stains. This plan does not cover theft or damage caused by abuse or misuse. Plans are effective from the day your mattress is delivered. For more info & FAQs about Extend accident protection, check out our Extend page . Can I try your mattresses in person? Expand/Collapse Yes! Our Saatva Viewing Rooms are inviting, pressure-free spaces to experience Saatva comfort in real life. What is white glove delivery? Expand/Collapse White glove delivery is the Saatva service standard and comes free with every mattress, bedroom furniture and rug order. While our teams don't actually wear white gloves, we do all the work for you. We hand-deliver your mattress and set it up in the room of your choice. We also take away your old mattress and foundation* if you select the "free mattress & foundation removal" at checkout—all at no extra charge! Typically, mattress orders are delivered from our factories within a 9-21 day time frame, depending on your zip code. Our bedroom furniture is also hand-delivered and assembled (if applicable) and bedroom rugs are delivered and set up in the room of your choice (rug area must be cleared of furniture by customer prior to delivery). You get all this for free as part of our premium white glove delivery service. *Note that there are a few items our delivery teams won't take away the following items: Waterbed bases Standard metal bed frames Sleep Number bases Stained and/or damaged mattresses & foundations/box springs What if I need to return my mattress? Expand/Collapse If you aren't completely happy with